.. _whatsnew_0180:

v0.1.8 (January 9, 2020)
--------------------------

* Added properties to the PerformanceMonitoring object to return the following:

  * Boolean mask, ``pm.mask``.  Indicates data that failed a quality control test. This
    replaces the method ``get_test_results_mask``(API change).
  * Cleaned data, ``pm.cleaned_data``. Data that failed a quality control test are replaced by NaN.

* Added the ability to run quality control tests as individual functions.  
  These functions allow the user to use Pecos without creating a PerformanceMonitoring object.  
  Each function returns cleaned data, a boolean mask, and a summary of quality control
  test results.
* io and graphics functions were updated to use specific components of the 
  PerformanceMonitoring class (instead of requiring an instance of the class).
  This changes the API for
  ``write_monitoring_report``,
  ``write_dashboard``, and
  ``plot_test_results``. 
* Filenames are now an optional parameter in io and graphics functions, this changes the API for 
  ``write_metrics``, 
  ``write_test_results``, and
  ``plot_test_results``. 
* Updated metrics:

  * Added time_derivative which returns a derivative time series for each column of data
  * ``qci``, ``rmse``, ``time_integral``, ``probability_of_detection``, and 
    ``false_alarm_rate`` now return 1 value per column of data (API change)
  * pv metrics were also updated to return 1 value per column (API change)
  * Deprecated per_day option. Data can be grouped by custom time intervals before 
    computing metrics (API change)

* Efficiency improvements to ``check_delta``. As part of these changes, the optional input argument 
  `absolute_value` has been removed and `direction` has been added (API change). If direction is set to positive, 
  then the test only identify positive deltas (the min occurs before the max). If direction is set to negative, 
  then the test only identify negative deltas (the max occurs before the min).
* Timestamp indexes down to millisecond resolution are supported
* Added additional helper functions in pecos.utils to convert to/from datetime indexes.
  Methods ``get_elapsed_time`` and ``get_clock_time`` were removed from the PerformanceMonitoring class (API change).
* Moved functionality to evaluate strings from the PerformanceMonitoring class into a stand alone utility function (API change).
* Removed option to smooth data using a rolling mean within the quality control tests (API change).
  Preprocessing steps should be done before the quality control test is run. 
* Added Python 3.7 tests, dropped Python 2.7 and 3.5 tests
* Updated examples, tests, and documentation
